DBMS - It is used to store & organize large amount of data and can do CRUD operations and traversal over the data.

Components of DBMS - hardware , software, end user, data query language.

Architecture of DBMS - Single tier : direct communication between client and serve.
                     - Two tier : Intermediate application layer is between client and server. Transparency is present.
                     - Three tier : presentation layer -> application layer -> client. Extra security with autharization 
                       of user.

RDBMS - data stored in tables, records, columns.

Types of DBMS - Distributed, Centralized, Relational, Graph, NoSQL, Cloud.
                Distributed - A table in a database used by other databases
                Centralized - Many tables in a database used by other databases
                Graph - Hierarchical, one to many, top down or bottom up approach


META - It is a kind of cache data which stores information of information.

Model of Data - structured : ER model through SQL (Pictorial Way)
              - unstructured : Object based (OOPS concepts)
              - semi-structured : No specific attributes are there.

Components Of DBMS - Configuring authentication and authorisation,
                     data backups,
                     storage engine,
                     query language,
                     query processor,
                     optimization engine,
                     metadata catalog,
                     log manager.

RDBMS consists of rows and cols.
rows - records
cols - fields
tuple - single record

MySql - DDL : Data defenition language
        DML : Data Manipulation language
        DCL : Data Control language
        TCL : Transaction control language
        DQL : Data Query Language

DDL - Create, Alter, Drop, Truncate.

DML - insert, update, delete.

DCL - Grant, Revoke

TCL - commit, rollback, savepoint.

DQL - select.














